---
id: web-import-export
title: Import/Export
---

The Centreon Web Import/Export module has been designed to help users configure
several Centreon Web platforms in a faster and easier way, thanks to its
import/export mechanism.

From a properly configured source environment, you can use the AWIE module to
export chosen objects towards a target environment. Those objects will be
replicated.

Centreon AWIE is based on CLAPI commands but its added value is to allow using
Centreon Web UI instead of commands lines.

## Installation

### Installing packages

Run the following commands as a privileged user:

``` shell
yum install centreon-awie
```

### UI installation

Go to **Administration > Extensions > Manager** and search **awie**. Click on
**Install selection**:

![imaage](../assets/configuration/awie/install_01.png)

Your module is now installed:

![imaage](../assets/configuration/awie/install_02.png)

## Export configuration

Once you have properly configured all Centreon Web objects you need (Poller,
Hosts, Services, Contacts, Time Periods... ) then you can export them towards
another Centreon Web platform by going to **Configuration > Import/Export**
menu.

Default page is Export one.

![imaage](../assets/configuration/awie/exportdefault.png)

### Exported Archive Name

Be aware that if you change the name of the created archive, you will not be
able to import it until the name of the archive is identical to the name of the
file contained in the archive.

### Poller Export

![imaage](../assets/configuration/awie/poller.png)

If you set the **All** check-box to yes (default value is no) then all
configured pollers will be exported with their configuration files (for engine,
broker...) after you have clicked on **Export** button.

If you want to export only one poller then type its **exact** name in **Filter**
field (one single value is accepted, this field has no list of items proposed).

### Hosts Export

![imaage](../assets/configuration/awie/hostsetc.png)

#### Hosts

![imaage](../assets/configuration/awie/hosts.png)

Same principle as Poller export but :

If you choose to export all hosts, then host configurations, linked host
templates and linked services templates will be exported but hosts will be
created in target environment without their services. However, you will be able
to create services by selecting value "Yes" for the **Create Services linked to
the Template too** radio-button in **Configuration > Hosts** page, for each
host. Save host configuration and export configuration.

If you export a specific host by using the *Filter* field (only one host at the
same time) then the host will be created in the new platform with all its
services.

#### Host templates

![imaage](../assets/configuration/awie/hoststemplates.png)

Check the *Host templates* check-box if you want to export all hosts templates.

Use the *Filter* field for one single value if you want to export one specific
host template.

#### Host groups

![imaage](../assets/configuration/awie/hostgroups.png)

Check the **Host groups** check-box if you want to export all host groups.

Use the **Filter** field for one single value if you want to export one specific
host groups.

#### Host categories

![imaage](../assets/configuration/awie/hostscat.png)

Check the **Host categories** check-box if you want to export all host
categories. There is no **Filter** field for this object.

### Services Export

![imaage](../assets/configuration/awie/servicesetc.png)

#### Services

![imaage](../assets/configuration/awie/services.png)

Same principle as Poller export but :

If you use the **Filter** field for a specific service, Import/Export process
will create ALL services linked to the first host linked to the filtered
service.

#### Service templates

![imaage](../assets/configuration/awie/servicestemplates.png)

Check the **Service templates** check-box if you want to export all service
templates.

Use the **Filter** field for one single value if you want to export one specific
service template.

#### Service groups

![imaage](../assets/configuration/awie/servicegroups.png)

Check the **Service groups** check-box if you want to export all service groups.

Use the **Filter** field for one single value if you want to export one specific
service groups.

#### Service categories

![imaage](../assets/configuration/awie/servicescat.png)

Check the **Service categories** check-box if you want to export all service
categories. There is no **Filter** field for this object.

### Contacts Export

![imaage](../assets/configuration/awie/contacts.png)

You can export all Contacts (without linked contact groups) or all Contact
groups (with linked users). No **Filter**.

### Commands Export

![imaage](../assets/configuration/awie/commands.png)

Check the check-box corresponding to the type of command you want to export
(Check, Notification, Miscellaneous or Discovery). No **Filter**.

> Command line notification commands are not exported entirely (known issue).

### Resources Export

![imaage](../assets/configuration/awie/resources.png)

### ACL

Check the **ACL** check-box if you want to export ACL objects (Access groups,
Menus Access, Resource Access, Actions Access). No **Filter**.

> Relations between ACL objects are exported but links between those differents
> objects are not created once they areimported.

### LDAP

Check the **LDAP** check-box if you want to export your LDAP configuration(s).
No **Filter**.

### Time periods

Check the **Timeperiods** check-box if you want to export all time periods. No
**Filter**.

## Import configuration

In the Export page, each time that the Export button is pressed, a zip archive
file is created and downloaded.

This is the file that you will upload in the Import Page of another Centreon Web
platform.

Go to **Configuration > Import/Export > Import** menu:

![imaage](../assets/configuration/awie/Import.png)

Select the centreon-clapi-export zip file you want to import then click on the
**Import** button:

![imaage](../assets/configuration/awie/zipfileuploaded.png)

You should get **Import successful** message at the end of the process:

![imaage](../assets/configuration/awie/success.png)

To check that objects have been properly imported, go to Configuration pages as
usual.

> It is necessary to generate, test and export configuration.
